# Persuasive Proposal

## Introduction

### *Episode 1: PSYOPtics*
For our digital history project, we will be creating a Public Broadcasting Network which will employ researched video essays and collections, to empower historical, philosophical, and political engagement, and discussions of modern America.. Our first Episode, and primary focus for this assignment, will be the project titled, “PSYOPtics,” which centers a video essay and digital collection on the developing relationship between domestic Psychological Operations in the United States and the American public imagination. This episode will use the history of COINTELPRO, a domestic Cold War psychological program formed by the FBI to target American political extremist organizations, to better understand how political life and American reality at large have been impacted by politically motivated psychological warfare. The Counter Intelligence Program (COINTELPRO) existed covertly from 1956 and 1971 when it was discovered by a congressional committee. The program employed many psychological tactics across the United States to dismantle organizations and maintain the status quo of American, capitalist, political thought. We will use COINTELPRO as a case study, and comparative lens, for the effects of domestic psychological operations on American civilians. This historical moment will be analyzed beside post-modern notions of PSYOP which are thought to be disseminated through digital media sites to reassert a dominant capitalistic understanding of reality. The episode will define these two moments of PSYOP and American imagination as “Cold War PSYOP” and “Digital Age PSYOP,” with our digital age research looking between roughly 2010 to the present. These moments in time will be assessed for their impact on reality, as well as their political, philosophical, and historical implications to answer the following questions:

* How have domestic CIA Psychological Operations impacted not just the shared memory of American citizens, but American reality at large?
* How has PSYOP evolved through time following the digital revolution? How has this evolution worked to enforce or reinforce Cold War narratives?

 The use of comparative analysis between history and the present will ground our questions, and episode at large, in the broader goals of our Public Broadcasting Network.  
 
### *Website Mission*
The public broadcasting network will be a flexible, yet polished static site that allows for viewers to engage with and discuss the topics at hand with ample access to the data in discussion within each episode. The idea is that each episode may have unique digital medium attached to it; in the case of “PSYOPtics,” a curated digital collection of artifacts and documents about various domestic psychological operations, some being directly released government documents entailing operations, others including civilian media related to said operations or the public imagination which has been shaped by them, i.e. newspaper articles, television clips, propagandized media, etc. 
Our network is shaped by a series of intentions, entailed by a Social Manifesto, created and located in its own tab of the network website, available for all users. The manifesto is made up of five principles that guide all media deployed on the site. 
The tenets:
1. Strive for Transparency & Accessibility

2. Continually look for the gaps & silences in the scholarship we share

3. Welcome discourse between the user and the collection

4. Promote positionality in knowledge production 

The intention behind creating a manifesto is to emphasize our goals in creating an ethical post-modern digital humanities project. We would like to make our intentions transparent to our viewers and allow the audience autonomy to make an informed decision about the knowledge that they are engaging with. Poetics and narrative play a tremendous role in the production of historical knowledge, and acknowledging the nature of truly nuanced scholarship will be invaluable to expanding the public imagination. As Hayden White encompasses in “The Historical Text as Literary Artifact” in Geoffrey Roberts ed., The History and Narrative Reader, “We may only know the actual through contrast with, or likening to, the imaginable.” [1]

### *Audience*
Both the website and our first episode “PSYOPtics,” intend to garner a similar audience, rooted in our mission. The audience we will market to, will not be categorized by race, class, or gender, but rather the eagerness to engage with a site that attempts to produce and share knowledge using post-modern digital methods of decolonization, transparency, and accessibility. These audience members may come from any walk of life, as our intended goal is to reach as many people as possible. However, with the content we will be generating, which may often center an American narrative, it can be estimated that our primary audience may be a Western audience with an age range of 16+. As is our mission, we will attempt to imbue our audience with new perspectives that move the needle towards historical and theoretical perspectives outside of traditional western academia. 

## A Critical Review 

### *Episode Medium*
  Joshua Citarella, an artist, professor at Rhode Island School of Design, and ‘internet culture writer’ is the founder of the nonprofit digital humanities project, “Do Not Research.” His publishing platform allows viewers to engage with various scholarship, art, and cultural media, publish their own, discuss with one another, and join courses that he has created on select topics. The webpage, hosted through Substack, is a curated selection of public submissions which Joshua Citarella parses through and publishes on the site in individual pages. 

  Citarella also hosts a digital humanities podcast called “Doomscroll” which is mainly centered around interviewing other academics, political figures, and experts on their various fields of expertise. Throughout the interviews, he dives deeper into discussions of how each topic is constructed and positioned within the modern Western sphere. In the episode of interest, “Trevor Paglen: Mindhacking and Psyops Capitalism,” Citarella interviews Trevor Paglen, author, artist, and geographer whose writing focuses greatly on state secrecy, military symbology, and in this episode, psychological operations. Each of his episodes, posted on youtube, are also housed on his substack webpage and include a short-form explanation of the episode along with images or other relevant media. Throughout the episode, Citarella continuously explains and situates the information that his interviewee posits, and accessibly prompts them to further the discussion through questioning or additional information. The episodes as a whole are extremely interesting in how they allow viewers to engage with the material at hand, hear the perspective of an expert on the topic at hand and facilitated by Joshua Citarella’s questioning and clarifying of the topics, which richly builds critical discussion on the topic, both between themselves and for viewers at home. 

  In the area of inspiration, we intend to create a space for the public to engage with our scholarship and discuss with one another similarly to “Do Not Research,” where the space for discussion is well organized, accessible, and interesting. Some areas that we would like to build upon are directly related to the lack of transparency of information in each episode. Although they use direct names of cases, there are no documents available to engage with directly. As accessibility is of utmost importance, providing our information in a cohesive and accessible way will be invaluable to the broadcast. One of the only aspects left to be desired with his episode, “Trevor Paglen: Mind Hacking and Psyops Capitalism,” is a space to see the direct scholarship, primary or secondary, on the matter. 


### *Collections Medium*
Looking at other digital history projects which center a collection database, we have better understood how we want to construct our own collection to meet our needs. Examining two unique digital collections projects, one which is a complete collection made through GitHub’s Collection Builder tool, and another which is a curated collection, we can see the pro’s and con’s to both forms of collections. Overall, our collection will employ the positives of both sites in order to develop a contextualized and highly detailed source of knowledge. 

The digital collection, “Lynching Postcards ​1908,” was created by the site Truth in Photography” to tell the history of the popular trend of African American lynching postcards, which were collected and mailed in the 18th century United States. This collection project contextualing digitized version of original lynching postcards, placing them in the story of American history. The site writes, “While lynching photographs are inherently racist, the ethics of exhibiting them are complicated. Should they been seen in public, or should they be shrouded? The truth of the images is undeniable. Today, these photo postcards are a stark reminder of the brutality to which African Americans were and are subjected.” The collection is highly curated, with only a few images selected to convey the story of black lynching postcards. Though, these digital objects are not fully described, as the only direct information about them are the archive they came from. This collection is deeply powerful, not only because of the history being told, but the contextualization which surrounds each digitized object. We hope to employ this method of contextualization and curation while constructing our own digital collection. 

The second site, titled “Status and the Sacred: Books of Hours in the Medieval World” is a GitHub Collection Builder product, which provides an expansive amount of information about each digital object. This information includes the name, date, location, creator (if known), source, and image type. Allowing researchers to know vital details about each medieval object and its digital form. However, this information is not contextualized, leaving it without a place in the broader history of Western Europe. With the collection about us page writing, “This site is intended to serve as a resource for information about books of hours and certain information about Medieval Western European life associated with them. It is primarily designed to serve as a repository for scans of a book of hours in the collection of the Lilly Library at Indiana University Bloomington.” Overall, the amount of information provided for each digital object will be essential to the construction of our own collection. 

## Digital Methods
The Network, a static site, generated through Jekyll and hosted through Github, will live as an accessible interactive space for our audience to engage with material and actively participate in facilitating the knowledge that we discuss in each episode. A larger goal of ours is to create a space for transparent education and active involvement in examining and situating historical narratives in the current collective memory. As we will be working with a thesis, we will have an active, yet acknowledged, role in creating a nuanced [potentially flawed/open to critique] historical narrative. 

### *Site Method*
As mentioned earlier, the site is generated through Jekyll, a static site generator with integrated support for Github Pages which allows us to deploy our webpage that we edit on Github. In alignment with our intentions of maintaining a tension between the our own inescapable subjectivity, and an invaluable reliability, Jekyll is described as a simple, user-friendly tool which “doesn't try to outsmart users by making bold assumptions, nor does it burden them with needless complexity and configuration. Put simply, Jekyll gets out of your way and allows you to concentrate on what truly matters: your content.” Github, a cloud-based platform, allows us to edit, track, and collaborate on each facet of the project, as well as house our content which will continuously be updated to the webpage. In building the website, we have used Jekyll and RubyGems, the package of jekyll code language, through Terminal, Mac OS’ command line interface to code and customize the webpage. With regard to troubleshooting common issues and customizing, we have relied on assorted user posts on Reddit as well as Microsoft Copilot and Github’s assorted instructional repositories. With the aim to use the least amount of artificial intelligence possible, for sustainability and ethics reasons, maintaining transparency about and AI involvement is essential to our process.

### *Episode Method*
The Episode itself will be recorded with equipment rented through the NC State University Library, with intention to post the video to youtube and embed it directly onto the webpage. Most likely, we will have automated transcripts through YouTube’s transcribing tool, but with a refined version available for users to read on the site.  

### *Digital Collection*
The data that we address, along with a more in-depth curation of documents will be available to users through a digital collection built through CollectionBuilder, a static open-source framework that allows the deployment of a collection built through Google Spreadsheets to a more polished interactive digital collection.

## Sources and Data

### *Cold War: 1947-1991*
For the Cold War section of our episode “PSYOPtics,” we will use both primary and secondary resources to research and discuss COINTELPRO and Cold War psychological operations more broadly. In addition, we will host all of our primary source documents on our digital collections page. Currently, the data we will have related to the cold war include Newspapers and Government documents created between 1947 and 1991. These documents will come primarily from pre-existing digital archives such as the FBI Records Archive and the National Security Archive. Additionally we may provide documents found in “The Development of American Psychological Operations, 1945-51” file, created by the Psychological Strategy Board of the CIA. Documents and objects found in these sources will be used to explain the strategic employment of psychological operations during this period. Newspapers from this time will primarily come from the Newspapers archive created by Ancestry.com. These newspapers will work as a resource for understanding the broader public understanding following the exposure of COINTELPRO. Currently, we are in the literature review portion of selecting specific documents and will continue to curate which documents will be selected for the digital collection. 

Our current secondary sources include:
* Scott-Smith, Giles. , "Confronting Peaceful Co-Existence: Psychological Warfare and the Role of Interdoc, 1963-72," Cold War History 7, no. 1 (2007): 19-43.
* Tobin, K. 2002. “The Reduction of Urban Vulnerability: Revisiting 1950s American Suburbanization as Civil Defence.” Cold War History 2 (2): 1–32. doi:10.1080/713999949.
* Leonard, Aaron J., and EBSCOhost. Menace of our Time: The Long War Against American Communism. Rutgers University Press, 2025.
* Tolle, Yeshua G. B. , "Friendship in the Time of COINTELPRO: Clarence Major and Dingane Joe Goncalves," Melus 47, no. 3 (2023): 153-170.
* Onder, Sevsu. , "Theorizing Psychological Operations through Norm Entrepreneurship: The Cases of Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty," Uluslararasi Iliskiler / International Relations 22, no. 86 (2025): 67-86.

### *The Age of the Internet: 2010-Present*
“Automated Text Analysis for Intelligence Purposes: A Psychological Operations Case Study,” a chapter of Open Source Intelligence and Cyber Crime by Bryneilsson et al., examines how modern data-driven methods of analysis alter and progress the process of analysis within “intelligence tasks,” or more specifically, Psychological Operations. We intend to use this source to examine the development of psychological operations into the age of the internet. With relatively newfound accessibility to text analysis tools for data mining, the vast increase in data size, assisted by data mining opens doors for previously unheard of capabilities for fast tracking and disguising intelligence operations. Although this case study addresses foreign operations, it heavily informs the progression of psychological operations domestically as well. The book is housed on Springer Nature Link, a research publishing platform for academic scholarship worldwide. 

“On influence operations: brainpower as a weapon of choice” by G.L. Lamborn, a retired CIA agent and Army reserve officer, is an undoubtedly interesting take on the state of modern PSYOPs. Although Lamborn has written a credibly sourced article, his position as a former CIA agent is unlike the variety of dominant views. He depicts a complex disappointment with the state of Psychological operations, sharing his opinions about the necessity to rebuild the former "brainpower" that the US had possessed during influence operations. He calls for an increase in PSYOP funding, a reemphasis on its integration into war planning, and reengaged to the frontlines. We plan to use this source in our comparative analysis to address the modern perspectives on Psychological Operations from a non-civillian standpoint as it has developed in the digital age, Lamborn’s take being especially interesting as a pro-PSYOP position. 


# References
[1] 

[1] this is teh link

